<body xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" id="whyXPath.xml-d1e2">
   <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:sc xml:id=d1e2&gt;</span>
  <h2 id="whyXPath.xml-d1e4">
      <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:rh xml:id=d1e4&gt;</span>Why Use XPath?<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:rh&gt;</span>
   </h2>
  <div id="whyXPath.xml-d1e7">
      <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:ti xml:id=d1e7&gt;</span>
      <p id="whyXPath.xml-d1e9">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:cr xml:id=d1e9&gt;</span>As long as you know how to navigate the XML tree, you can characterize a 
      document by its structural XML - its elements and attributes - as well as 
      the human-friendly content, such as text values of those elements and 
      attributes.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:cr&gt;</span>
      </p>
      <p id="whyXPath.xml-d1e12">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:cr xml:id=d1e12&gt;</span>With XPath, you can:<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:cr&gt;</span>
      </p>
      <div id="whyXPath.xml-d1e15">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:ne xml:id=d1e15&gt;</span>
         <ul>
            <li id="whyXPath.xml-d1e17">
               <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:mn xml:id=d1e17&gt;</span>find all values used in an attribute,<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:mn&gt;</span>
            </li>
         </ul>
         <ul>
            <li id="whyXPath.xml-d1e20">
               <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:mn xml:id=d1e20&gt;</span>identify all <code id="whyXPath.xml-d1e22">
                  <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:fe xml:id=d1e22&gt;</span>&lt;persName&gt;<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:fe&gt;</span>
               </code>s that appear within 
        <code id="whyXPath.xml-d1e25">
                  <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:fe xml:id=d1e25&gt;</span>&lt;person&gt;<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:fe&gt;</span>
               </code>,<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:mn&gt;</span>
            </li>
         </ul>
         <ul>
            <li id="whyXPath.xml-d1e29">
               <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:mn xml:id=d1e29&gt;</span>return only those elements that meet a certain criteria, such as 
        <code id="whyXPath.xml-d1e31">
                  <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:fe xml:id=d1e31&gt;</span>&lt;p&gt;<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:fe&gt;</span>
               </code> only if it has a value of "nope" in the
        attribute <code id="whyXPath.xml-d1e34">
                  <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:fe xml:id=d1e34&gt;</span>@rend<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:fe&gt;</span>
               </code>.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:mn&gt;</span>
            </li>
         </ul>
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:ne&gt;</span>
      </div>
      <p id="whyXPath.xml-d1e39">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:cr xml:id=d1e39&gt;</span>While XML schemas and documentation wikis will tell you how an element 
      or attribute <span id="whyXPath.xml-d1e41" class="emph">
            <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:pd xml:id=d1e41&gt;</span>ought to be<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:pd&gt;</span>
         </span> used, XPath can tell you how an element 
      or attribute <span id="whyXPath.xml-d1e44" class="emph">
            <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:pd xml:id=d1e44&gt;</span>is<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:pd&gt;</span>
         </span> used. It does not, however, make any judgments 
      about the validity or correctness of its results. This makes it a useful 
      tool for finding examples or errors, especially when used in conjunction 
      with human judgment, XML schemas, documentation, encoding guidelines, 
      and/or regular expressions.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:cr&gt;</span>
      </p>
      <p id="whyXPath.xml-d1e48">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:cr xml:id=d1e48&gt;</span>XPath is also an essential prerequisite for building or reading XML 
      schemas, XSL transformations, and XQueries. In fact, XPath 2.0 was 
      designed in conjunction with XQuery 1.0, so that if you can write XPath 
      2.0, you can write basic XQueries.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:cr&gt;</span>
      </p>
      <p id="whyXPath.xml-d1e52">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:cr xml:id=d1e52&gt;</span>If you work with XML, it's very likely XPath can solve some kind of 
      problem for you. It's even more likely that XPath is already being used 
      behind the scenes to make your current work easier!<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:cr&gt;</span>
      </p>
      <span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:ti&gt;</span>
   </div>
  
  <div class="xmldoc" id="whyXPath.xml-d1e56">
      <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:changelog xml:id=d1e56&gt;</span>
      <div class="xmldoc" id="whyXPath.xml-d1e58">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:change xml:id=d1e58 who=amc when=2015-06-07&gt;</span>Some additions and edits. Deleted oXygen paragraph.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:change&gt;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="xmldoc" id="whyXPath.xml-d1e61">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:change xml:id=d1e61 who=amc when=2015-06-06&gt;</span>Moved oXygen instructions to their own paragraph. Might delete it, or move it to its own document.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:change&gt;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="xmldoc" id="whyXPath.xml-d1e64">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:change xml:id=d1e64 who=amc when=2015-05-18&gt;</span>Moved sections into different XML files.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:change&gt;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="xmldoc" id="whyXPath.xml-d1e67">
         <span class="xmldoc">&lt;mtx:change xml:id=d1e67 who=amc when=2015-05-06&gt;</span>Basic outline using HTML/TEI hybrid.<span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:change&gt;</span>
      </div>
      <span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:changelog&gt;</span>
   </div>
   <span class="xmldoc">&lt;/mtx:sc&gt;</span>
</body>
